---
path: "/post/24652270662/core"
date: "2012-06-07"
title: "Stepping Down from Core Development"
tumblr: "24652270662"
comments: true
---

I’ve never been a fan of being in the spotlight. Unfortunately, my contributions to Drupal eventually came with more responsibility and visibility in the community, which led to a great deal of being in the spotlight on one level or another. When asked to lead the HTML5 Initiative, my initial gut reaction was to say no, and I did. I pondered for weeks before finally agreeing to do it. Ultimately, I said yes because people in the community that I have a lot of respect for wanted me to do it, and I didn’t want to let them down. I felt that I could effect positive change and attract more front-end developers to participate in the process. I had just spent the last 1.5 years making enough changes to Drupal 7 to be among the top 50 contributors to Drupal core, and while it was a struggle on more occasions than others, I felt good about the work and I had no reason to believe that Drupal 8 would be different.

It was okay for a while, but during the last year, I’ve have some pretty crappy experiences with some people in the community and working with Drupal itself. I’m not going to get into much detail and I won’t name names in private either, so please don’t ask. I will say this… I started noticing things changing for the worse almost a year ago. Discussions often get heated because there are lots of passionate people involved with strong opinions. I’ve always seen this as a downside of participating and have had a low tolerance level for it from day one. And maybe it’s just that my perception of things has changed, but it seems to have gotten considerably worse over a short period of time. I’ve also experienced some relationships that were important to me deteriorate, which has been nothing short of depressing. I’ve been vocal about some of it, but for the most part it’s been a long, lonely road that has left me completely uninterested in contributing any more of my time to Drupal core.

Overall, my experiences with Drupal, both personally and professionally, have been on the decline for the last year. I’ve consistently become more frustrated, and had less and less to say, on Twitter and elsewhere, for fear of offending one person or another, or having my words be misinterpreted. I’ve been “called out” for speaking negatively on more than one occasion, and told that as a “leader” in the community I should not say such things. I’m now at a point where I rarely even monitor Twitter, the issue queue, or GDO. I cannot even tell you how many comments and tweets that I’ve composed only to never actually post them. It’s more than trying to not say anything if I don’t have anything nice to say, and I don’t like feeling this way.

Ultimately what it comes down to for me, and of course your mileage will vary, is that it’s no longer working for me. Contributing used to be fun, and I used to feel like my contributions effected positive change, but that’s no longer the case, and I can’t seem to get out of the rut to turn things around, so I’ve decided not to contribute to Drupal in any sort of official role anymore.

The reason this post exists is because I feel that I owe an explanation and apology for my absence to the members of community that contributed to and were counting on me to lead the HTML5 Initiative to the completion of Drupal 8. I’m sorry that I’ve let you down, but I can no longer do it. Not only has it been a trying and stressful experience on a personal level, it’s also been a drain on my finances that I need to rectify and that takes priority over everything else right now.
